Hello Ladies and Gentlemen and welcome to another episode of Cinema Summary.
Today we'll be looking at The Lord of the Rings by J.R.R. Tolkien; a hallmark of the Fantasy genre.
If you’ve ever heard of elves, orcs, dwarves, you've probably heard of it from somewhere or something
inspired directly or indirectly by the Lord of the Rings and the works of J.R.R. Tolkien
Adapted by Peter Jackson and released in 2001, The Fellowship of The Ring is the first movie in a trilogy
Now, if you're ready for an adventure, here's Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings: Fellowship of the Ring.
In the Second Age of Middle-earth, the lords
of Elves, Dwarves, and Men are given Rings
of Power.
Unbeknownst to them, the Dark Lord Sauron
forges the One Ring in Mount Doom to conquer
them all, abandoning a great part of his power
to it in order to dominate, through it, at
a distance, the other Rings and conquer Middle-earth.
A final coalition of men and elves battle
Sauron’s forces in Mordor, where Prince
Isildur of Gondor cuts the One Ring off of
Sauron's finger, thereby destroying his physical
form.
Unfortunately, Isildur decides to take care
of the Ring himself, but the evil influence
of the Ring corrupts Isildur, preventing him
from destroying it in Mount Doom.
Isildur is later killed by Orcs, and the Ring
is lost for 2,500 years, found and owned by
Gollum for five centuries.
The Ring is then found by a Hobbit named Bilbo
Baggins.
Sixty years later, Bilbo celebrates his 111th
birthday in the Shire, reuniting with his
old friend, Gandalf the Grey.
Bilbo reveals that he intends on leaving the
Shire for one last adventure, and leaves his
inheritance to his nephew, Frodo, including
the Ring.
Although Bilbo has begun to become corrupted
by the Ring and tries to take it for himself,
Gandalf intervenes.
Telling Frodo to keep the Ring hidden, he
investigates it, and discovers its true identity,
returning to warn Frodo.
Learning that Gollum was tortured by Orcs,
and told them that Bilbo took the Ring, Gandalf
instructs Frodo to leave the Shire, accompanied
by his gardener Samwise Gamgee.
Gandalf rides to Isengard, meeting fellow
wizard Saruman the White, but learns that
he is in cahoots with Sauron, who has unleashed
the Ringwraiths to find Frodo.
After a brief battle, Saruman imprisons Gandalf.
Frodo and Sam are joined by fellow Hobbits,
Merry and Pippin, and they evade the Ringwraiths,
arriving in Bree, where they are meant to
meet Gandalf, but are instead aided by a ranger
named Strider, a friend of Gandalf's, who
escorts them to Rivendell.
A few things: #1 the actor for Saruman the
White (Christopher Lee) was the only member
of the crew and cast who actually met the
author of LOTR, J.R.R.
Tolkien and had read LORD once year until
his death in 2015.
His friendship and knowledge of LOTR helped
shape the film with his inputs here-and-there.
He originally auditioned for Gandalf but landed
the role for Saruman, a role which Jackson
always had Lee in mind.
The Hobbits are ambushed by the Ringwraiths,
one stabbing Frodo with a cursed Morgul blade.
Arwen, an elf and Strider’s lover, comes
to Frodo’s aid, and successfully takes him
to Rivendell, where he is healed, meeting
Gandalf, who escaped Saruman on the back of
a giant Eagle.
Arwen’s father, Lord Elrond, holds a council,
deciding that the Ring must be destroyed in
Mount Doom.
While the members argue, Frodo volunteers
to take the Ring, accompanied by Gandalf,
Sam, Merry, Pippin, elf Legolas, dwarf Gimli,
Boromir of Gondor, and Strider, who is revealed
to be Aragorn, Isildur’s heir and rightful
King of Gondor.
Bilbo gives Frodo his sword, Sting.
The Fellowship of the Ring sets off, but Saruman’s
magic forces them to travel through the Mines
of Moria, much to Gandalf's chagrin.
The Fellowship find out that the dwarves within
Moria have been slain, and they are attacked
by Orcs and a cave troll.
They defeat them, but are confronted by an
ancient demon called a Balrog.
Gandalf casts the Balrog into a vast chasm,
but its fiery whip drags Gandalf down into
the darkness with it.
The rest of the Fellowship, now in command
by Aragorn, reach Lothlórien, home to elves
Galadriel and Celeborn.
Galadriel privately informs Frodo that only
he can complete the quest, and one of his
friends will try to take the Ring.
Meanwhile, Saruman creates an army of Uruk-hai
to track down and kill the Fellowship.
Viggo Mortensen, the actor for Aragorn, is
an interesting figure for the film.
He was actually called in late into production
to replace actor Stuart Townsend who was supposed
to portray Aragorn.
His first scene being the battle at Weathertop
after the company leave Bree.
He was one of the few actors who did participate
in sword training unlike the other key actors,
but the swordmaster Bob Anderson, a former
Fencer who’d been working in film and TV
for at least 30 years training actors for
sword combat, said Mortensen was “the best
swordsman he trained”.
The man would get so intense that other stuntfolk
would be afraid to be in fight scenes due
to his intensity, and the man did his own
stunts.
The Fellowship leave Lothlórien by river
to Parth Galen.
Frodo wanders off, and is confronted by Boromir,
who tries to take the Ring in desperation.
Afraid of the Ring corrupting his friends,
Frodo decides to travel to Mordor alone.
The other members fight off the Uruk-hai,
but Merry and Pippin are taken captive, and
Boromir is mortally wounded by the Uruk chieftain.
After slaying the chieftain, Aragorn watches
Boromir die peacefully.
Sam follows Frodo, accompanying him to keep
his promise to Gandalf to protect Frodo, while
Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli go to rescue Merry
and Pippin.